Hello everyone and welcome to the natural language processing section of the course we're going to now
learn the basics of natural language processing.
And this is the field of machine learning that focuses on creating predictive models or even unsupervised
learning algorithms from a text data source.
That is straight from articles consisting of words.
Now this natural language processing section otherwise known as an LP will just contain a single custom
code long example.
For one thing the documentation doesn't really have a full example instead.
As little miniature examples on different features that we're going to be using and the custom code
along is actually a larger multi-step process which is why it's going to be the main and only focus
of this section of the course.
Now as another note this is actually a very large field of machine learning with its own unique challenges
and sets of algorithms and features.
So really what we're going to cover here is just scratching the surface of this really interesting field
of natural language processing.
Now as far as optional reading suggestions if this is something that interests you I would suggest that
you first start off just reading the Wikipedia article on natural language processing.
Actually pretty good it gives you a nice overview of different techniques that are available and a little
bit of the history of natural language processing.
Then if you're really interested in focusing on natural language processing with Python I would suggest
you do a google search for the T.K. book now an LDK is a python library that's actually separate from
Sparc and it's kind of outside the scope of this course and it's not really for distributed datasets
but if you find yourself really interested in natural language processing that's a really great book
that's online.
It uses it's own and LDK library.
But the reason I suggest that is that it's totally free and it's online and it's a great resource for
you if you really are interested in natural language processing specifically of Python.
Now if you're interested in just statistical natural language processing the mathematics behind it I
recommend the book Foundations of statistical natural language processing by Manning.
OK.
So again those are just optional reading suggestions in case this is a topic that you're really interested
in.
So moving along let's discuss what natural language processing could be used for.
You could use it to cluster news articles.
You could also use it to suggest similar books based on the actual content of the book.
You could group legal documents together based on similarities.
You could analyze consumer feedback or you could even do spam e-mail detection which is what we're going
to be doing in this particular section of the course.
Our basic process for any and all the task is to compile all the documents into what's known as a corpus
then we're going to feature the words into some sort of numerical content like a matrix.
Now not every machine learning algorithm needs this.
There are some more advanced machine learning algorithms such as Word to vector or word to VEC that
it can actually take in words themselves and then analyze them and create vectors from that.
But that's outside the scope of this course.
Said organo into focus is on classical natural language processing which can be extremely effective
and that focuses on taking in words converting them to some sort of numerical data some sort of numerical
matrix.
And then we can compare features of documents using that numerical data.
So let's discuss the standard way of converting a document or a corpus full of actual words or a text
into something that a machine learning algorithm can understand.
Most of these algorithms can only take in pure numbers so how do we actually transform words into a
matrix full of numbers.
Well the standard way of doing this is through the use of what is known as T.F. IDF A.F. of stands for
term frequency inverse documented frequency.
So let's explain how this particular topic works.
So is a simple example let's imagine that we have two documents in our corpus of tax and one document
is just a single line says Blue House and the next document is another line it says rent house.
So what you could do as an idea to featuritis these words into numbers is just totally based off word
count.
And this is coming in as a bag of words approach so we say okay what are all the words that are available
across this entire corpus or across all the documents.
Well that would be blue red and house.
Those are all the words that appear off the entire corpus.
So what we end up doing is a simple word count.
So blue house gets translated as we check against the actual count of all the words available and we
get something that looks like this is a vector's 0 1 1.
So the word read shows up 0 times the word blue shows up one time and the word house shows up one time.
Then for Red House well we know red shows up one time blue shows up 0 times and house shows up one time.
So we can already get an idea of how we could use word counts to convert words to an actual vector of
numbers.
And now we have a document represented as a vector of word counts.
And the general idea again is called bag of words.
Essentially you just have an entire bag full of words and you just counting it.
So again now blue house and Red House are these vectors.
So now they're vectors in an end dimensional space.
In this case just three dimensional space.
And what we can do is you can compare vectors of cosigned similarity and there is a formula right there.
And essentially you're just comparing how close are these two vectors in this three them in space.
And if you have a lot of words then it's an end dimensional space right.
So now what's really cool as you can use mathematics to actually compare well how similar are these
documents given the actual word counts.
And we can actually improve on bag of words by justing word counts based on their frequency in the corpus
or the group of all documents.
And this is known as term frequency inverse document frequency.
There are some issues if you just use a pure bag of word approach.
While it is a great basic approach you can actually improve on this a lot.
So we end up doing is we take these two ideas.
Term frequency and inverse docking of frequency.
So the term frequency applies the importance of the term within that document.
So we have this T.F. of X and Y and that's the number of occurrences of the term X in document y.
So for example if you have a document where the word house appears a ton of times.
What's really interesting is that you have this term frequency so you know that this particular document
has the word house a lot in relation to the actual document.
Total number of words.
Now the issue of just doing term frequency by itself is sometimes you'll have a really long document
and other times you have a really short document.
So you want to somehow take the actual document length into account.
And that's where inversed document frequency comes in.
So that's the importance of the term throughout the entire corpus.
That is all the documents so we'll say Inv. and frequency of T is equal to log of and over DFA of x
where n is that total number of documents and if x is the number of documents with the term.
So what does this actually look like when we see this mathematically.
Well term frequency inverse document frequencies that expressed like this.
So we have the frequency of x in y multiplied by the log of the total number of documents divided by
the number of documents containing that specific term.
And this is the term frequency inverse document frequency of the term X within document Y.
All right.
So definitely check out the reading of the Wikipedia article.
It has a much more in-depth explanation.
Well you should be really getting out of this as far as bird's eye view is the fact that we're essentially
using some sort of workout device and then taking into account how often that particular term shows
up in the document and then using inversed documented frequency to take into account the actual differences
between document links.
OK so luckily Sparke has a lot of paice sparked the M-L thought feature tools to help out of this entire
process and make it easy for you.
You never actually have to do any of that mathematics at all happens behind the scenes and you can easily
call some feature vectorize or take care of all that for you.
So we're going to do is jump into a custom code example that detects spam versus ham or good text notifications
so we're going to jump into all of that and we'll walk through its entire process one step at a time.
So let's jump to the next lecture where we go and open up a new chapter notebook and create our own
spam detection model.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture.